I didn't really hear you say testing. No, but I
think it's five minutes. So I didn't realize that
you were the one that got the seed lab out there.
I'll tell you what
happened.
Gatesville was being filled with delinquents. So
they were going to build a new school. Well, the
speaker and I at this time was Gus Mutch. And they
were also going to build a school for mentally
retarded. And I said, Gus, I tell you what, you got
people in here that you can't control. And I can, I
got, you got people here that you control, and I
can. Let's do this. Let's get the mentally
retarded school the money for that, designated
for Brenner, and I'll take the school, the
delinquent school.
So Mr. Healy, who at that time was made, was
appropriation.
So
it was all set up. Yeah.
Burnham, buy the land, furnish the land, get him to
furnish the land for the school right here.
Uh,
We hit it. Well, I came down here and talked to, uh,
Monroe Honish at that particular time. Do you
remember? I don't. Monroe and, uh, and Judge, uh,
Semain, and a few other people like that. Got them
together there at the , and told them what I believe
I can do. Of course, they were all happy, because
that was going to put a lot of people to work around
here.
And there was two, I'm not going to tell you who they
were, but there was two people that asked more
questions. All the rest of them put together. And
they didn't give one dime to help buy the land.
Where, as the banks, I think First National
furnished about $7,000, $8,000, and Citizen
wasn't quite that much. And then a lot of
individuals, like Self and Milton Archer and
Murcher and I don't know who, would furnish X
number of dollars. In fact, I feel that's the best
of what they furnish.
And we first got enough money together to buy that
land. Well, this neck,
if you can recall, this neck came up to the highway,
and these colored people on the—well,
one
of them got the Sternberger is on the land, and they
wanted, I think, at that time, $500 a acre. I'll be
there for you. At that time, not now. Anyway, we got
the money to buy the whole thing.
And I told the manager, or head man of the
delinquent,
We'd get that land there for him if he would give me
this
neck in there and build us a building. I'd help him
get some extra money in his appropriation.
Mr. Healy had already told me to go ahead and put
that proposition to him. And he'd get the money and
put it in there. So he did.
And so, actually, the, uh, that's what we did. And
they did the, uh, the, uh...
Let me call it again. It was not, uh...
Anyway, before the school was built,
there was a fellow by the name of Turman, too. He's
dead now. And they deeded us that neck up there and
built us that building. And that's the only
property that the Texas Department of
Agriculture owns.
I didn't know that. I
guess, what did you do in between the time that you
became, well, you ended your years as deputy
commissioner and then took the job in the Farmers
Home Administration? Were you involved still in
agricultural? I was just on my
own. You said that you were... You were appointed
in August of 1977. I was the first one in the United
States to be appointed. By Carter? By Carter. Or
was that, that was
just by Carter.
What kind of influence did he have over you when you
could do pretty much what you wanted? I did mostly
anything I wanted. Loaning money. You have
different sections in Temple there. You had the
loan section for cattle, loan section for houses,
loan section for community property, community
improvement.
Then you had your loan section that would help
people to go in business that couldn't afford it,
yet they were worthy of it. And that's what I
control. How long were you in this position? How
many years?
About three and a half, I guess. Three and a half?
Uh-huh. I couldn't move early. I could have stayed
on, but this, I don't want this out.
It got to me.
That's when things started tightening up. And I
got there at the end.
People would come in the office that our field
people had turned down. And I was, you might say,
the last resort. And I could see where they
couldn't pay for it, no way. Yet they had taken
their land and taken a lot of it. And it got next to
me. I just couldn't...
What I did, I just... I called
the in-house attorney at Scott & White, who I had
served in the legislature with, and I told him, I
said, now, I know you've got the best doctor up
there. I said, that's the one I want. I said, I swear
to you, Jamie, his name's Jamie Clinton, I believe
I've got...
He said,
Bill, I'll bet you don't, because I think I know
what you're doing. I'm not the doctor. And he's an
attorney. And so he went away. He says, just sit
right there. I'll call you back in about 30
minutes. I don't know if he did. He called me back.
He had me an appointment set up with his doctor. And
he set me up with a doctor,
a real nice fellow, one of the old ones up there. He
made speeches in Mayo and the University of
Mexico. He was well known in the medical field.
When you go through there, Scott and Mike, they
send you around to a specialist in every field. And
they went from the top of my head to my feet. Because
I didn't know what to put on, what to fill out.
Anyway, end of the second day, I went in to see my
doctor. And he... I said, Bill,
you carry your work home with you, don't you? I
said, Doctor, I do. I worry. I worry about these
poor people. I said, at one time I had lots and lots
of money, but now they've lived it up, and what are
they going to do? They moved out of their places.
You know, anyway, I said, Bill, I...
He said, you shouldn't worry about what you owe
them. You can't do that. He said,
the best thing you can do is go home and take two
aspirin and go to bed. And wound up. that I have
nervous stomach. Said, Bill, you don't even have
an ulcer. You're nervous. Your nervous stomach is
causing you this trouble. I still got it. I just got
it back from Staten White last night. Well, during
those years, that was when we had inflation. Were
people really losing their farms because of the
economy? Because they spent too much money. They
kind of lived too high. That was the cause of most of
it. Then a
lot
of the products weren't selling like they should.
In 1979, the Overview said that there were like
over 14,000 farm programs under the, in Texas,
under the Farmers Home Administration, that was
like twice as many as in any other state. Was this
mainly the reason because agriculture was the
biggest thing for Texas at that time? A lot of, you
know, we used to have lots of, look here, we used to
have, of course you don't remember, but We used to
have lots of cotton here. At one time, we had about
seven or eight gins here in this county. We don't
even have a gin now. I've noticed it was just
peanuts. That's all. And they can't make any money
out of cattle. I know, because I raised cattle. You
can't build off of cattle. Another thing, too, the
boys, and girls were going off to college, just
like you, and getting better educated. And they
were not going back to the farm to handle that
tractor. And they were married. They wanted to
take their family out to Austin to eat once in a
while. like people here do. But you couldn't do it.
You couldn't make that kind of money and pay your
taxes and pay for your land. You cannot, in no way,
buy your land, buy your farm equipment
and your house and pay for what you raise on the farm
at this time. Do you think agriculture, then, is
going down? What do you predict? Down, down, down.
I was talking to a man yesterday. It's Scott and
White. He
was from Oklahoma. He said, well, all of a sudden,
we're in such bad shape. And I was talking to a
nurse. I had some dental work while I was up there.
Not a good dentist here, but since I had the time, I
had to sit there and wait for another appointment
between the doctors while I went in there. And she,
the nurse, I knew her. And I said, well, how you
doing? And I told her, we talked. She said, her home
is in Iowa. She said, she's been up home. She said,
Mr. Pratt, you just don't realize it. what
condition those poor farmers are in and the small
business has we there's towns up there with say two
and three thousand populations the whole town is
boarded up and out
do you see um do you see any kind of any field or any
area of agriculture that come back do you see any
area in agriculture that might prosper in the next
year? No. A lot of people at A&M are not really in the
agriculture part. They're in ag business. That's
it. The ag business people are the only ones making
money. John, David's brother-in-law, he sells
out of Kansas City, he sells
farm equipment. But the A lot of your—well,
the north you go, the worse it gets. A lot of those
people up there are selling out. Consequently,
the ones down this way—well, Boggy, he bought
tractors and things, brought them down here, used
them. He didn't buy anything around here new,
because those people up there couldn't sell it. Do
you think the Farmer's Home Administration is
working? Do you think it'll probably phase out
because of the economy? No, it can't phase out. I
say it can't. Of course, anything can phase out,
but no, I don't think it'll phase out because they
have mortgaged on too much. The last year that I was
there, I lent out over $700 million. How much do you
think the state will get back from that? That's not
the state. That's the federal. Federal. Well,
they won't get back much in interest, because the
interest probably wasn't over 3% or 4% or 5%,
something like that. And they'll get back more
from the housing authority that we lent money to
build houses. And they'll get back more from the
country water supply. They'll pay it back. But the
farms will be less and less. More of them have to be
sold. Another reason of it is when they put the
embargo, Carter started that. He was wrong there.
He was wrong. Russia.
Because of that Afghanistan mess, you know. All
right. They put the embargo on them. We were
selling them lots and lots of wheat and corn. Then
they turned around and started buying it from
Argentina
and other countries and now are buying it cheaper
And consequently, they're not buying from us, not
much from us. That's one reason our farmers are in
such bad shape. So the farmers, they didn't mind
selling it to Russia? Oh, no. Not as long as we had
that dollar. Mm-hmm. What area of the Farmers'
Home Administration really worked in? It was not
apparently the farming. Was it housing or...
community, which worked the best, did you think?
Community. Community. Um, what... And we, we, uh,
are, we lent money to a lot of people that, uh,
of course, they were all investigating and
wrestling with people that, uh, and they would
have to have something to start with and be
knowledgeable of the product they were going to
make. And, uh, We lent them money, and we got most of
our money back. Actually, we didn't loan them any
money. We would guarantee them money, like
savings loan up here. Loan Tina Melcher $50,000 to
build a new home. And she's got a good job. she'll
pay it, and we'll guarantee that she will pay it.
And that's the same thing with most all the other
things. So that's mainly what the state did, just
guarantee it? I'm not a state now. Well, I mean, the
state did for the federal government. They
guaranteed... The state didn't. The state didn't
have anything to do with the pharmaceutical
stuff. But your job was just to guarantee the
federal... government. My job was my job was was to
use my judgment for this particular people could
pay this back.
So what did I know it was a real bad economy time and
everything but did Carter It seemed like he just
got into a hole and he didn't know how to get himself
out. But with that, at the end when inflation was
really getting bad, were there pressures put on
you not to give out loans or anything from the
federal government? There was more put on me to
give loans than there was. They wanted you to give
loans? Some of the senators up there would call me
and ask me to loan over the old. I said, no, I'm not
going to sign it. I don't think you can pay it back.
Oh, I didn't. I said, well, now, I'll tell you what.
I'll send you the papers up there, and you get them
signed up there in Washington. They said, oh, no,
you know we can't do that. I said, well, I'm not
going to sign it. Period. So you just took care of
Texas, just the state of Texas? State of Texas. So
since you're an agriculture man, I'll end it by
asking you, those
years that you were in the Agriculture Department
and you had influence in the state were probably
the most prosperous years of Texas. And what do you
feel like will be the future of the Ag Department of
Texas and the Farmers Home Administration? Of
course, it depends on the management. I ran
into a man that was being examined, an SCS man, out
of A&M. He's a hot shot. He's one of the big boys over
there.
And we shook hands and talked. He says, oh, we just
had John White back there instead of the man that we
got. He says, that man that we got? I said, sorry.
Sorry. Now, of course, I'm not telling you this to
be corny or anything
like
that.
Some
of the employees tell me that the
Farmers' Home Administration
is not loaning as much money
to people that really, they think they can pay
back.
Because of, let's just face it, Republicans are a
lot more conservative. And older you get, I'm a lot
more conservative now than I was when I was... your
age or even older. It's just a matter of life. The
older you get, the more conservative you get. And
there it comes. So do you see yourself as a liberal
in your younger days? Or a conservative liberal? I
never was a real liberal.
I was, I'd say, middle. because I was raised
money-wise conservative.
But the agricultural
industry, I think,
the future looks like And a lot of people claim, oh,
we ought to get rid of, a lot of you liberals, say we
ought to get rid of the
corporations. Oh, no, let these corporations
farm. Well, that's not, I know Tineco, I talked to
the director of Tineco, and they control 90% of the
almonds grown in California.
And they sold them. They wanted the X number of
dollars for them. But two of the main chain stores
went in there and said, we'll give you this for
them, which was a lot less than this X money.
Your chain stores control more of it than any of the
other corporations that do the farming.
Well, thank you for your interview. I appreciate
it. Well, that wasn't much.
Good.
Good. Good. Good. Good.
Yeah,
like that doesn't get called into our file. What
happens if we just type it in and they type it in?
Okay, now we have something to pick up on. This
doesn't have an access to the database. Yeah. It
doesn't know whether the switch is actually
powered. But what I'm saying about afterwards, it
doesn't go through. It's just going to end up with
this now thing that we've got. Yeah, I think if
we've got the HMI view on it, it's going to have the
HMI view. It's going to have the HMI view. So how
are
we
going to know if it's loaded? .
. . .
And
what was the other question you had?
So
I wonder, a person who's been in and out of the
college, and they're, say, ten feet out right now,
how early is that? Is that when you're the one who's
going to call back and say, is this what we're
doing?
.
. . . . . Thank
you. I'm
just, I don't do anything wrong. I'm just, I don't
do anything wrong. I don't do anything wrong. .
. .
It
would be helpful to have this. Because if the car
doesn't break, then we've got to move our grocery
bar to the doctor. But then there's the car. And
then there's our car. And then find the old car.
They can't find it. So they can't find it. So I think
having a bridge is really helpful.
I
think that would be really good.
Do
you also like to come out and report on things that
you did that you didn't report on? Is that one of the
things that you started to do that you didn't like
to come out and report on? No. I think it's
important to work with people who you can tell
them. And so we can... Yeah, I think that's a good
idea.
How
do you like it? I like it. I like it. The
only thing I'm really going to find out, I promise,
would be if you give me the card. The what? The ID
card. Can you give me the card? The ID card?
um
um I
just assumed that he would just walk in. I would
have had the option if he wanted to do it, but when
the system goes down, . .
.
. . . . . Oh,
yes, we have. Last
verse, we can go back in. We can go a little further
down. We can go a little further down. We can go a
little further down. We can go a little further
little further down. I'll have to do it. I'll have
to do it. Okay. I mean, we'll try to do it. We'll try
to do it. We'll try to do it. We'll try to do it. At
least you
have the control
of knowing what kind of algorithm you're
using. Is that what you mean by the type of
algorithm you're using? Yes. How many computers
do you have? Well, I don't know. Maybe... You found
the answers, didn't you? If
he wasn't,
he would drown himself after all that happened.
That's right. John, if you can't get up, why don't
you go to the bathroom? I don't know. I think
it's... It looks good on you. No, it's beautiful.
It's not beautiful. Just
a
minute,
let me get one more chart. Yeah, that might be
helpful. Because, like, I had a dog, and I found a
new home at the church yesterday, and it was so, so
nice. And this is my site, and I just got it. And, um,
I scanned the number, and it popped in the
calendar, and it was two different numbers. Well,
I see our numbers as well.
And
so I had
to put in a call meeting to round out if that number
fit and told me who the caller was. And we had to
charge him. I had to find him to get a notice. But I
said, you know, I couldn't be sure if that came
through. I always send my phone right to him. So we
have our conference. Do you have any other
information? Do you have any other information?
Thank
you.